# Zipcode Demographics Generator

By Shirsho Dasgupta (2021)

#### Notes: 

The code combines zipcode-level demographic data (total population, racial and ethnic breakdowns) and economic data (median income, poverty levels) and creates a master spreadsheet for any given state. 

This is done in two steps.

Step 1: Imports the latest zipcode-level data from Census Reporter and creates a spreadsheet.

Step 2: Runs the same spreadsheet through the "uszipcode" pandas library to update any missing figure that the library may have that Census Reporter does not. 

It can then be matched with any data that comes at the zipcode level. 

The raw datasets that are imported to this dataframe are in folder "imports".

A sample spreadsheet generated by this code is attached. See zipcode_finalmaster.csv

The example in this code is with COVID-19 Restaurant Relief Funds for Florida. 

A sample spreadsheet created after the join is attached. See rrf_zipcode_master.csv



##### A few things to remember:

1. This zipcode demographics generator can be made for any state and ready (and up-to-date) code saves a lot of time that would otherwise be sent making countless joins and cleaning up the resulting spreadsheets.

2. The United States Census Bureau does not record data at the zipcode level. Zipcodes are assigned by the United States Postal Service and sometimes change. They may also overlap between counties or even states. The Census Bureau records data using ZCTAs or Zipcode Census Tract Areas that may or may not correspond to zipcodes. To create a generator from scratch i.e., without relying on readymade libraries (with estimations of zipcode-level data) on R/Python or Census Reporter, it is better to consult professional demographers. 

3. The Restaurant Relief Funds spreadsheet imported in the code below (as an example) is a pivot table from the raw data released by the United States Treasury Department's Small Business Administration. 

4. The code used the RRF spreadsheet as a demonstration of how the data can be used. For a true analysis the total amounts of grants received or number of restaurants that got the funds must also be controlled for the number of eateries in that zipcode. One way of doing this is to use the Census Bureau's Zipcode Business Profiles, which is among the few things the bureau records at the zipcode-level. The ZBPs have minimum numbers for employees and establishments in a given zipcode. For eateries, restaurants and bars, the relevant NAICS code is 722---.

5. Hispanic/Latino are ethnicities, not races. 

6. Different people use slightly different Census tables to measure racial breakups. It is better to consult demographers or academics.


#### Sources:

###### Census Reporter
[Total population](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B02001/)

[Black population](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B02009/)

[White population](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B02008/)

[Hispanic/Latino population](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B03003/)
    
[Median family income](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B19113/)
    
[Poverty level](https://censusreporter.org/tables/B17020/)
    
    
###### US Zipcode Pandas Library
Read more [here](https://uszipcode.readthedocs.io/index.html)
    

###### SBA COVID-19 Restaurant Relief Funds
Find the raw data [here](https://data.sba.gov/dataset/rrf-foia/resource/611f26df-0de0-427d-adb1-3bb91c8e8846?inner_span=True)
